README.md, before:

# Explore buildpacks.io

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Pre-requisites:
* Install docker
* Start Docker daemon
* Intall buildpack: https://buildpacks.io/docs/tools/pack/ 
* (optional) Set default buildpack
pack config default-builder <bp-id>

## 1/ Create a custom buildpack 

Following this [buildpack doc: Create a buildpack]( https://buildpacks.io/docs/buildpack-author-guide/create-buildpack/building-blocks-cnb/) with a [CRA app](https://create-react-app.dev/)


> Custom buildpack allows you to hook in buildpack lifecycle phases and 
 create your own build  pack.
 it complies with buildpack API and is contrainted with lifecycle. Buildpack does not generate a visible dockerfile as outpur. It really takes a srouce code and output an OCI image (build, run).
 The lifecycle is: detect, build, restore... The minimal CLI target is build

```
pack buildpack new examples/node-js \
    --api 0.8 \
    --path node-js-buildpack \
    --version 0.0.1 \
    --stacks io.buildpacks.samples.stacks.jammy
```    
In `./node-js-buildpack` there is a skeleton for template builpack.
Here you can hook on lifecycle: detect, build

2/ Write code to override build phase
I cutomized the `./node-js-buildpack/bin/detect` and `./node-js-buildpack/bin/build` in my custom buildpack to use a psecific version of node as per tutorial.

3/ Build with custom buildpack
```
pack build my-app3 --buildpack ./node-js-buildpack
docker run --platform linux/amd64 -p 3000:3000 my-app3
```
Note: when working on macOS to remove warning use  `--platform linux/amd64` see [here](https://medium.com/@email.bajaj/docker-image-platform-compatibility-issue-with-mac-silicon-processors-m1-m2-ee2d5ea3ff0e 
)

In you browser go to `http://localhost:3000`

## 2/ Create a custom extension

> Available as experimental from 0.31.0

> With extension you have accessto a new lifecylce phase `generate`. During the generate phase (a new lifecycle phase that happens after detect). It outputs either or both of build.Dockerfile or run.Dockerfile for extending the builder or run image, respectively.

Commit message:

chore: readme with buildpack heroku link

README.md, after:

# Explore buildpacks.io

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Pre-requisites:
* Install docker
* Start Docker daemon
* Intall buildpack: https://buildpacks.io/docs/tools/pack/ 
* (optional) Set default buildpack
pack config default-builder heroku/builder:22

## 1/ Create a custom buildpack 

Following this [buildpack doc: Create a buildpack](https://buildpacks.io/docs/buildpack-author-guide/create-buildpack/building-blocks-cnb/) with a [CRA app](https://create-react-app.dev/)


> Custom buildpack allows you to hook in buildpack lifecycle phases and 
 create your own build  pack.
 it complies with buildpack API and is contrainted with lifecycle. Buildpack does not generate a visible dockerfile as outpur. It really takes a srouce code and output an OCI image (build, run).
 The lifecycle is: detect, build, restore... The minimal CLI target is build

```
pack buildpack new examples/node-js \
    --api 0.8 \
    --path node-js-buildpack \
    --version 0.0.1 \
    --stacks io.buildpacks.samples.stacks.jammy
```    
In `./node-js-buildpack` there is a skeleton for template builpack.
Here you can hook on lifecycle: detect, build

2/ Write code to override build phase
I cutomized the `./node-js-buildpack/bin/detect` and `./node-js-buildpack/bin/build` in my custom buildpack to use a psecific version of node as per tutorial.

> Note: 
 * Heroku detect open source in [here](https://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-nodejs/blob/main/bin/detect)
 * Heroku build/compile in [here](https://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-nodejs/blob/main/lib/builddata.sh)

3/ Build with custom buildpack
```
pack build my-app3 --buildpack ./node-js-buildpack
docker run --platform linux/amd64 -p 3000:3000 my-app3
```
Note: when working on macOS to remove warning use  `--platform linux/amd64` see [here](https://medium.com/@email.bajaj/docker-image-platform-compatibility-issue-with-mac-silicon-processors-m1-m2-ee2d5ea3ff0e 
)

In you browser go to `http://localhost:3000`

## 2/ Create a custom extension

> Available as experimental from 0.31.0

> With extension you have accessto a new lifecylce phase `generate`. During the generate phase (a new lifecycle phase that happens after detect). It outputs either or both of build.Dockerfile or run.Dockerfile for extending the builder or run image, respectively.
